                                                WORKSHEET 1 SQL
 Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
 1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL? 
  Ans:- D Alert                                                             
                                                               
 2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL? 
 A) Update                                                                B) Delete
 C) Select                                                                  
Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question. 
 3. Full form of SQL is, 
   Ans:- B) Structured Query Language
                                      
 4. Full form of DDL is, 
  Ans:- B) Data Definition Language 
                             
 5. DML is, 
 Ans:- A) Data Manipulation Language
 
 6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type? 
  Ans:- D) All of them 
 
 7.Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above? 
   Ans:- B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float

 8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above?
Ans:-D) None of them 

 9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
 Ans:- A) Table A (D float int) 

 10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it? 
     Ans:- D) None of them
 Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.

 11. What is data-warehouse?  
Ans,- Data  warehouse serve as a central repository for storing and analyzing information to make better informed decision.An organization’s data warehouse receives data from a variety of source ,typically on a regular basis ,including transactional systems ,relational databases.

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP? 
Ans ,-OLTP AND OLAP , The two terms look similar but refer to different kind of systems.online transaction processing (OLTP) captures ,stores, and processes data from transaction in real time .online analytical processing (OLAP)uses complex queries to analyze aggregated historical data from OLTP system.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?
Ans,- these may include  a cloud,relational databases, flat files, structured and semi structured data,meta data ,and master data.

14. What is Star-Schema??
Ans,- A star schema is a database organizational structure optimize for use in a data warehouse or business intelligence that uses a singal large fact table to store transactional or measure data,and one or more smaller dimensional tables that store attributes about thae data. 

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Ans,- (SET Language) is a very high level programming language based on the mathematical theory of sets
 